---
title: 'Boreal Heights Music'
slug: 'boreal-heights-music'
type: 'project'
category: 'Music & Tabs'
datePublished: 'November 10, 2013'
dateEdited: 'August 28, 2024'
featuredImage: 'boreal-heights-music.jpg'
---

Boreal Heights is a musical project I started in 2013. I experiment with
different genres and styles, drawing inspiration from nature. The project is
currently on hold due to limited free time and a lack of equipment after leaving
Russia.

Listen on [Bandcamp](https://borealheights.bandcamp.com/music) and watch on
[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@eagrigorev). Also available on
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/artist/6sYGw9icM29bZlcTCyHY39) and
[Apple Music](https://music.apple.com/us/artist/boreal-heights/1465971446).

## 2020

### Winds & Windows

<SpotifyEmbed
  src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/7dvwimGEkD8KqBy2R9vhih?utm_source=generator&theme=0"
  layout="big"
/>

I'm excited to announce the release of the new Boreal Heights album, _Winds &
Windows._ I spent just over a year composing, recording, and re-recording these
songs. The project began with acoustic guitars only, but I later expanded the
instrumentation to include bass guitar, flute, and piano. However, the original
guitar-only singles are still available in various places. I've never been one
to follow trends; I've always wanted to create music that I personally enjoy
listening to, and I'm thrilled that others find it interesting as well! If
Boreal Heights songs resonate with you, then all my efforts have been
worthwhile.

Recorded and mixed from April 2019 to May 2020. Engineered, mixed, and produced
by Evgenii Grigorev.

Artwork by Mariia Kuzmicheva.

#### Milestones

July 2, 2020 — Reached #4 with the track "Early Rains" on the acoustic folk
compilation by In the Woods.

June 3, 2020 — Featured review in Popmonitor magazine.

May 30, 2020 — The album was featured by In the Woods, one of the best and
biggest folk and dark folk communities on YouTube.

May 28, 2020 — Initial release.

## 2019

### Early Rains

<SpotifyEmbed
  src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/35keXrw8gATxhNAhsruQJW?utm_source=generator&theme=0"
  layout="small"
/>

I've decided to release a new Boreal Heights song as the second single from my
forthcoming album. This song is called "Early Rains," and I hope you enjoy it! I
also decided to make some slight modifications to my upcoming tracks, as I
noticed that they can be a bit tricky to play, which can significantly impact
the overall quality.

Recorded and mixed in August 2019. Engineered, mixed, and produced by Evgenii
Grigorev.

Artwork by Rich Soul via Unsplash.

### Far lands

<SpotifyEmbed
  src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/2XBu7wlFCe5ZR3wu04E3qn?utm_source=generator&theme=0"
  layout="small"
/>

I'm currently working on the new Boreal Heights album. Although the work is
still in progress, I decided to share a single from the upcoming release called
_Far Lands._ This isn't the first song I recorded for the album, but I chose to
share it because it captures the authentic atmosphere and mood I want to convey
in the final release. The final version of _Far Lands_ might undergo some
changes, but I'm not certain yet because I really like it as it is.

The idea for _Far Lands_ came to me while composing an old "memories" post on my
blog a few months ago, while listening to _Eventide_ by Eneferens. I began to
think it might be a good idea to create a spiritual successor to my previously
released EPs, _Under Åpen Himmel_ and _Beyond the Sea of Ghosts._

As for the rest of the album, the work is ongoing. At this point, I've managed
to complete more than half of the tracks. I'm planning to release the album
sometime in the autumn.

Recorded and mixed from March to May 2019. Engineered, mixed, and produced by
Evgenii Grigorev.

Artwork by Kyle Peyton via Unsplash.

## 2018

### Beyond the Sea of Ghosts

<SpotifyEmbed
  src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/0idU7W3iseRHVNWrmlef6e?utm_source=generator&theme=0"
  layout="small"
/>

Five years have passed since my first Boreal Heights release, _Crystal Maze._
For this EP, I composed the song "Beyond the Sea of Ghosts" in two versions:
acoustic and metal. I originally published the metal version and left the
acoustic one in drafts, thinking it would stay there. But now, I believe it's
time to share it with the world! Today, I'm excited to present my new single,
_Beyond the Sea of Ghosts._

I'm still quite satisfied with the genre I explored in my previous EP, so
_Beyond the Sea of Ghosts_ is also rooted in dark folk. For this release, I
experimented with ambient sounds for the first time, opening up a vast field of
possibilities for future exploration!

Although _Beyond the Sea of Ghosts_ has been reworked and rearranged, it remains
the same song at its core. I made some adjustments to make it playable on
acoustic guitar. Arranging songs initially meant for metal on various acoustic
instruments is always challenging, and sometimes it's not worth the effort, but
I'm confident that this process worked well for this song!

Recorded and mixed from May to June 2018. Engineered, mixed, and produced by
Evgenii Grigorev.

Artwork by Ruslan Valeev via Unsplash.

## 2016

### Under Åpen Himmel

<SpotifyEmbed
  src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/3xI8lhUTLBmDwbt0ig4fir?utm_source=generator&theme=0"
  layout="small"
/>

The time has come for a new Boreal Heights release, and I'm proud to present
something different this time. I'm very excited to share _Under Åpen Himmel,_ my
new EP, which I decided to record after another long period of silence. It's
been quite a year! Feeling somewhat fatigued from the metal music I previously
composed, I decided to explore something new and wrote two songs in the dark
folk genre.

This turned out to be a great decision, as I've found myself completely drawn to
this new genre, which I recently discovered through various YouTube videos. And
you know what? It feels just right — like something I've been searching for all
my life.

Recorded and mixed from July to September 2016. Engineered, mixed, and produced
by Evgenii Grigorev.

Artwork by Lucia Otero via Unsplash.

## 2015

### Morning Star

<SpotifyEmbed
  src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/2ptA58ZbSuizR0oAvaZtKV?utm_source=generator&theme=0"
  layout="small"
/>

I spent nearly six months at the start of 2015 composing new songs for Boreal
Heights. It had been quite a long period of silence since my last release. After
experiencing a painful departure, I found a spark of inspiration and wrote seven
original songs. However, in the end, I decided to record only two of them. The
others didn't feel finished or ready for release. But with "Morning Star" and
"Back in February," I felt they were complete, with nothing more to add.

Recorded and mixed from February to July 2015. Engineered, mixed, and produced
by Evgenii Grigorev.

Artwork by Dustin Scarpitti via Unsplash.

## 2013

### Crystal Maze

<SpotifyEmbed
  src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/43HTMr4WfMoGYvIUdCA6Iu?utm_source=generator&theme=0"
  layout="small"
/>

I had a strong desire to finally create something original, to express my
feelings and thoughts, and to test my new guitar. This is how _Crystal Maze_
came to life. Heavily influenced by Katatonia, Opeth, and other doom metal
bands, I recorded these two metal tracks. I hope you enjoy them.

Recorded and mixed from September to November 2013. Engineered, mixed, and
produced by Evgenii Grigorev.

Artwork by Larm Rmah via Unsplash.
